# Proposal 1: Classification of Infrared Spectroscopic Images

## This project is my first priority for capstone project. 

Please also see pdf file for proposal 1


1) High level description of project.

Histopathology is the gold standard for cancer diagnosis and determining initial directions for treatment. The high level of morphological detail present in stained biopsies enables pathologists to determine the presence of cancer. 
Histological stains are used for microscopic visual examination of the tissue structures.
There are alternative approaches such as Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). The  absorption spectra provide molecular fingerprints for each pixel, which translates to key cellular biomolecules, such as proteins, lipids, DNA, collagen, glycogen, and carbohydrates. Each pixel contains the spectrum generated by a Fourier Transform.

2) What question or problem are you trying to solve?

Standard histopathology steps consist of biopsy collection, tissue preparation and sectioning, the application of chemical stains, and analysis by an expert pathologists. This process is done manually and has some problems: 
a) Time-consuming and susceptible to human error
b) Chemical stains are non-quantitative
c) Heavily relied upon in clinical assessment

The goal is to identify six major cellular or acellular constituents of tissue (namely blood, collagen, epithelium, necrosis, myofibroblasts and adipocytes) using spectral information from FTIR.

3) How will you present your work?

I would like to use interactive visualization if I have enough time, otherwise I stay with PowerPoint presentation. 

4) What are your data sources?

The dataset used in this study consisted of 540 breast tissue cores (with 1mm diameter) from different patients.
 
Feature: The dataset comprised of 680 IR- spectra (680 bands). 680 features for each pixel.  

Target: Histological sections were examined by experienced pathologists to identify cell types within the tissues (blood, collagen, epithelium, necrosis, myofibroblasts and adipocytes). 

5) What’s your next step towards making this your project?

Preparing data (I think I  need to balance data for different classes)
Apply PCA for dimension reduction




# Proposal 2) Vehicle Information Detection from Registration Tags
 

1) High level description of project.  

Vehicle registration stickers display license plate number, county of registration and partial vehicle identification number. This customization helps protect the car against theft and fraud. 
In some parking garages, sometimes more than thousands cars  are left for a long period of time  (this specifically happened during Houston hurricane). The parking owner need to find some information about cars' owners. 
Instead of checking each car registration sticker on by one, a drone can be sent to get a picture from cars' windshields. 


2) What question or problem are you trying to solve? 

The goal is to extract license plate number, county of registration and partial vehicle identification number from pictures taken by drone. 



3) How will you present your work?   Visualization 


4) What are your data sources?  Google image for car registration stickers  


5) What’s your next step towards making this your project.
   Web scraping for gathering data 



Proposal 3) TBD







